---
title: "Design/Build/Fly - 2023"
excerpt: "Led our team to a top-10 finish in international student competition."
layout: single
collection: projects
permalink: /projects/DBF2023
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/DBF_2023/DBF_N5G_hero_shot_1.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/DBF_2023/DBF_N5G_hero_shot_1.jpg
author_profile: true
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Jump to section"
toc_icon: "plane-departure"
classes: custom-font-size


gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/DBF_2023/prototype_1.JPEG
    image_path: /assets/images/DBF_2023/prototype_1.JPEG
  - url: /assets/images/DBF_2023/prototype_2.JPEG
    image_path: /assets/images/DBF_2023/prototype_2.JPEG
  - url: /assets/images/DBF_2023/prototype_3.JPEG
    image_path: /assets/images/DBF_2023/prototype_3.JPEG  
 
---

## Intro
The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) hosts an annual Design/Build/Fly (DBF) competition, with over 100 student teams competing from across the world. Each year, the rules are changed with unique requirements and missions. During the 2023 competition year, our team created the “Negative 5G” remote-controlled aircraft to perform mock surveillance and electronic warfare jamming missions, ultimately placing 6th at the 2023 fly-off in Tucson, AZ.

[picture - team photo, preferably not at competition]

## My Role
As President and Team Pilot of The Ohio State University's DBF team, I fostered an engaging and collaborative team culture, empowering my teammates and subteam leads to innovate. I mentored newer team memners to aid in knowledge transfer for future yearsWhile some of my responsibilities were administrative, I retained an active involvement in the detailed-level design and construction of the aircraft and mentored newer team members to ensure knowledge transfer for future years.

## Engineering Highlights
### Rapid Prototyping and Testing
I emphasized the importance of hands-on learning through rapid prototyping, leading our team to build and test multiple flying prototypes before solidifying the design. Between all-up airplane prototypes, we also made numerous iterations of individual parts and subsystems to refine their design.

{% include gallery caption="First prototype (L) and second prototype (C) with jamming antenna. Final airplane before finishing touches (R)." %}


### Fuselage - Detail Design & Construction
I designed the internal fuselage structure, which was primarily constructed from ⅛” and 1/16” laser-cut plywood.
[picture - internal fuse structure]

Two carbon fiber tubes were used along the length of the fuselage to align formers and to distribute load from the main landing gear, which was secured to the carbon fiber tubes using a 3D printed mounting plate. 
[picture - bottom w/ landing gear]

The flaperon servos were housed inside the fuselage, using a simple mechanical interface to drive the flaperons with the wings installed.
[picture - flaperon servos]

Given the requirement for all parts of the airplane to fit inside of a box the size of airline checked luggage, the wings and tail were designed to be removable. A 3D printed bracket was used to help secure the carbon fiber wing and tail joiners. 
[picture - showing joiners and CF tubes]

The motorbox was built into the internal fuselage structure with room for the electronic speed controller (ESC). I also designed the nose gear to be both steerable and foldable, automatically locking in place when unfolded during aircraft assembly.
[pictures - motorbox and nose gear]

After installing all internal components, we glued a two-part carbon fiber shell around the internal structure to complete the fuselage assembly.
[pictures - glueing CF shell and completed picture]

### Tail - Interlocking Mechanism
All three surfaces in the inverted-Y tail configuration were mixed to provide yaw control, as a large amount of yaw control authority was necessary to maintain steady level flight with the jamming antenna (½ inch PVC pipe of our chosen length, as required by the rules) installed. Unlike traditional tail configurations or V-tails, the inverted-Y tail configuration produced a yawing moment and rolling moment both in the desired direction to counter the effect of the jamming antenna.
[pictures - tail folded and unfolded]

## Challenges & Lessons Learned
Juggling many different tasks as president who was involved in technical, logistics, organization etc.
Holding the team to a tight schedule
We can accomplish much more as a team with proper delegation and supportive leadership

## Competition
Our airplane performed beautifully at the 2023 fly-off and completed the Ground Mission and all three Flight Missions, earning 6th place out of ~100 competing teams. Traveling with my teammates was an absolute blast and was the perfect way to close out my four years with the team.
[picture - team photo at competition]

## Gallery (optional)
[picture - team photo doing OHIO with cacti]
