---
title: "P-38 Lightning"
excerpt: "8-foot wingspan RC P-38 made for slow indoor flight. Built entirely from scratch."
layout: single
collection: projects
permalink: /projects/P-38/
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/small_pic.jpg  # Replace with your image path
  #image: /assets/images/small_pic.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/small_pic.jpg
author_profile: true
---

### Overview

Summary: 

After building my 1:6-scale RC Bf-109 (link to Bf-109 page), I had to build an Allied fighter to pair with it. With its distinctive twin booms and commanding presence, the P-38 Lightning stood out to me as a clear choice. Both models were made to fly indoors at an annual indoor RC festival in Ohio.

To this day, despite how long ago I built it, this is my favorite plane in my collection. No CAD, no fancy equipment - just an Exacto knife and a dream on a 14-year-old’s budget.


Timeline:
November 2015 - January 2017


Specifications:
Wingspan: 96”
Length: 70”
Weight: ~3 lb
Battery: 2s 2200mAh LiPo
Features: Servo-driven fowler flaps, steerable nose gear, and differential thrust


I found a 3-view online with cross-sections along the length of the plane. Construction began with the internal structure, with formers and stringers hand-cut from Dollar Tree foamboard. The foamboard was cheap and lightweight - perfect for building an indoor slow-flyer on a budget.


Joined the booms with the center fuselage pod. This project quickly outgrew the workbench in my childhood bedroom.


I added movable fowler flaps, which were tricky to get right due to their combined translational and rotational motion. To minimize weight, the inboard and outboard fowler flap panels were driven by a single servo in each wing. 


I installed the rest of the electronics - motors, ESCs, tail servos, receiver - and began forming the skin for the wings and fuselage. Note that the outboard wing panels are removable for ease of transportation.


With the electronics installed and most of the skin complete, it was ready for a maiden flight. Things went smoothly until we smelled something burning, and discovered (after a safe landing) that some motor wire insulation had started to melt. I moved the ESCs to be closer to the motors, and replaced the wiring with shorter lengths of higher AWG silicone wire. 


The airplane was now ready for final details and paint. I made a mock cockpit, which is removable for access to internal electronics. 


I chose to paint the plane in the colors of Thomas “Tommy” McGuire, the second-highest scoring American ace with 38 confirmed kills (right behind Richard Bong with 40 kills, who also flew a P-38). There is some uncertainty in his last moments, but he died during a dogfight, likely because he did not drop his drop tanks and stalled at low altitude. Lots of interesting history to dig into there.


Finally, the finished airplane, proudly on display at the 2017 NE Ohio Electric Festival. I flew it in a demo at this event, and have accumulated a handful of additional flights on it since then. Talking to fellow RC pilots about the build and showing others what I made was incredibly rewarding, and made all of the long nights worthwhile.

